.TH nih-dbus-tool 1 2009-04-11 libnih-dus
.\"
.SH NAME
nih-dbus-tool \- D-Bus binding code generator
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nih-dbus-tool
.RI [ OPTIONS ]...
.RB [ \-o
.IR FILE ]
.RI [ XMLFILE ]
.br
.B nih-dbus-tool
.RI [ OPTIONS ]...
.B \-o
.I FILE
.BR \-\-system | \-\-session
.BI \-\-dest\fR= NAME
.I OBJECT-PATH
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
The D-Bus introspection format is an XML document describing the
interfaces implemented by a particular object, including the methods
and signals of that interface along with their arguments and the
properties of that interface.

A single document describes a single object, represented by the root
.B <node>
tag.  Interfaces implemented by that object are specified by
.B <interface>
tags within it.  Methods, signals and properties defined by the
interface are described by
.BR <method> ", " <signal> " and " <property>
tags within the interface.  Arguments to methods and signals are
defined by
.B <arg>
tags within them.  Names and other values are specified as attributes
to the tag.

Additional properties for external tools or software may be given in
.B <annotation>
tags.  These may appear within interfaces, methods, signals, properties
and arguments.
.B nih-dbus-tool
makes use of many of these.
.I Note that argument annotations are an nih-dbus-tool extension to
.I the format.

.BR nih-dbus-tool 's
parser is reasonably liberal, to allow for future expansion of the
D-Bus introspection format.  Any unknown tag, attribute or annotation,
or any tag not in an expected location, will be ignored with a warning.
However a missing root node tag, missing attributes, illegal or
invalid format values for defined attributes or non well-formed XML
will result in an error.

Character data and comments are not considered part of description, and
are not parsed.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Scott James Remnant
.RB < scott@netsplit.com >
.\"
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at 
.RB < https://launchpad.net/libnih/+bugs >
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2009 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.
.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
